
 # What is the BIOS?
- BIOS (basic input/output system) is the program a computer's microprocessor uses to start the computer system after it is powered on. It also manages data flow between the computer's operating system (OS) and attached devices, such as the hard disk, video adapter, keyboard, mouse and printer.

- Use analogies from your previous background to explain what happens during the booting process?
- 1. The Startup
- It is the first step that involves switching the power ON. It supplies electricity to the main components like BIOS and processor. So this could also be switching a car on with you first enter the car. You jump into the vehicle and turn the key once.  

- 2. BIOS: Power On Self Test

It is an initial test performed by the BIOS. Further, this test performs an initial check on the input/output devices, computer’s main memory, disk drives, etc. Moreover, if any error occurs, the system produces a beep sound. The car also goes through similar checks to if there are any problems within the vehicle it would initiate it via warning lights on your dashboard.  

3. Loading of OS

In this step, the operating system is loaded into the main memory. The operating system starts working and executes all the initial files and instructions. You the driver are remembering how to drive the car and operate it according to the manual. 

4. System Configuration

In this step, the drivers are loaded into the main memory. Drivers are programs that help in the functioning of the peripheral devices. You as a driver, remember how all of the special functions work within the car; highlight, windshield wipers, windows up and down features. 

5. Loading System Utilities

System utilities are basic functioning programs, for example, volume control, antivirus, etc. In this step, system utilities are loaded into the memory. The driver's brains hows to executes these features within the car. 

6. User Authentication

If any password has been set up in the computer system, the system checks for user authentication. Once the user enters the login Id and password correctly the system finally starts. Once everything is working the driver starts the cars, the car system will not start unless the right key is presented. 

 

What is the “Power On Self Test”? A Power-On Self-Test (POST) is an operation initiated by a computer after it has been turned on but before it boots up the OS.
 

What is the CMOS/ What is the CMOS battery? CMOS is the memory on a motherboard that stores the BIOS settings. A small battery, called a CMOS battery, keeps it powered.
